>> My name is Brendan Langoulant, and
I am an engineering manager for Address Book and Mail.
Today we are here to help you ensure that your
customers' important contact information isn't isolated
from the Apple ecosystem.
And we're going to take you through three major sections.
The first section is really going be about how to -- giving
you an understanding of the layers involved and building
up from some of the basics of how to use the API.
Going through some of the data types in the
core functions that you need to know in order
to development an application using Address Book.
Then we're going to move on to giving
you some examples of how to use some
of these interface elements that we provide you.
And actually add a hook into the Address Book
application that you might be able to find ways to --
find new ways to integrate your application
with the Address Book application.
And then finally, we're going to move on to how
to make sure that you're using the best practices.
We've made some changes under the
hood with your Address Book.
And we want to make sure that you're really
not wasting time taking the wrong approach,
that you're actually using the
best practices that we suggest.
And making sure that you get the best performance.
So in the dark days of Macintosh we had many,
many different contact management databases.
That meant that each developer had to
implement their own contact database.
It meant that customers, worse
had to actually go and implement
or type in the same contact details over and over again.
And that was not very good.
So we really didn't -- we thought maybe
there's a better way of doing this.
Hint; born, the Address Book framework.
So as you can see up here, the Address Book
framework is used by a lot of applications.
Here are some of the applications.
Going through applications like mail,
which uses it for e-mail addresses.
Applications, iChat for doing IM handles.
Interesting one.
ICal, using it for birthdays and for attendees, when
you're actually inviting people to your meetings.
And there's a lot of other applications.
In fact when we're going through of the
process of making Address Book 64-bit,
we really understood how many applications
inside Apple used the Address Book framework.
There's a large hierarchy of applications which
are all based on having an Address Book somewhere.
Here's some applications that are
already using the Address Book framework.
And they're already getting the benefits of using
a centralized database for managing their contacts.
So some of the benefits that you get by using this
database -- as we add more devices to the Apple ecosystem,
your contact information will automatically
migrate into those devices.
So when we first developed Address
Book, things like Sync didn't exist.
So when we added sync, that meant that automatically your
contact information went to places like dot Mac, to iPod,
and other devices that you might think of.
One of the new things that we've done in
Address Book is add Time Machine support.
So what this enables your customers to do is if they realize
that they've either changed a piece of data on a customer,
or one of their contacts, I should say, and they no longer
can find that information, you can launch into Time Machine,
type in the name of that person, and then fly back through
time to find that person and retrieve those contact details.
Worse, if you happened to have deleted the person, then
you can also go back and retrieve it in the same way.
So in effect, your customers automatically gain this
benefit by using -- your customers will gain this benefit.
One of the things that we've done under the hood
for Address Book is we've replaced our
own database with the CoreData database.
And we've done this for a couple of reasons.
More of which we'll get to later.
But some of the reasons in fact were to
help us support some of the Time Machine.
Also to make sure that we don't use too
much memory when managing the contacts.
And really to make sure that the on disc
representation of those contacts remains coherent.
So really, no matter what happens,
you know, ecstatic shot, cosmic rays,
that your data is really safe from any problems.
Or unexpected problems, even worse.
So with that, I will hand over to Joe who
will take you through some of the overview
and give you an understanding of the API.
( Applause )
>> Thanks Brendan.
My name's Joe Engel.
I am a software engineer in Apple's
internet technologies group on Address Book.
And this is my slide.
Today, I'd like to help you learn how you can integrate
your applications with Apple's standard system repository
for contact information by going over an overview
of our most commonly used APIs and tasks,
as well as some of the architecture involved.
So onto the architecture.
This is by now a possibly familiar looking
stack diagram of the Mac OS X operating system.
And at its core is the Darwin foundation layer.
Which is where the kernel and V F S and
concrete file system implementations reside.
And as Brendan mentioned, now that we're using
CoreData this offers a robust backing store,
which offers type integration with each of these file
system implementations to provide for file amnesty,
and coherency for all of your database
transactions such that even in the event
of a power failure the database
integrity should be maintained.
Additionally, this is where the I O sub
systems and networking stack reside.
And these are leveraged by the sync
services layer in system services.
To allow all of the information your applications enter
into the Address Book a conduit to devices like iPod, PDAs,
cell phones, as well as network services like dot
Mac, so your data can be universally available.
Also at this layer is the notification server.
And Address Book makes use of notifications to
notify your application when another application
on the system has made a change
to the underlying data store.
And this allows every application to maintain
a synchronis view of all of the information.
So when I user adds a contact or removes a
contact from the Address Book application
or when your application updates a record or adds a contact.
Every other app can see it as well.
On top of this is the frameworks layer,
where Address Book itself resides,
as a peer to framework such as Carbon and Cocoa.
Here we provide Objective-C interfaces for foundation
and Cocoa applications as well as C interfaces.
Which can be used by Core foundation applications
and B S C applications, as well as Carbon apps.
We won't be discussing the C interfaces very
much today, although the Objective-C interfaces
and the C interfaces have future parity, and
I think you will find them to be very similar.
So a transition between the two should be fairly natural.
On top of the frameworks we have search.
Now search has been an increasingly important
technology in Mac OS X. In 10.4 Tiger, we did Spotlight,
which began to offer users content indexing of all
the meta data stored in the Address Book records.
So Spotlight defines property types for
each of the pieces of data in a record
Such as the e-mail addresses and phone numbers.
And using the Spotlight APIs, or the
Spotlight feature for the interface,
your users can quickly search this information
and your applications can retrieve it.
Inside of the framework we also have
a class called A B search element.
And you can use this to formulate
expressive queries about those data
that you wish to retrieve from the persistent store.
And this is increasingly important
in Leopard for performance reasons,
which Colter will be getting into later.
But this is also a handy way to retrieve
just those contacts that you wish.
And on top of all this, we have the user interface layer.
And this kind of falls into two categories for Address Book.
The one most people are familiar with as
users is the Address Book application.
But as developers we provide a hook for you to provide
an action associated with any bit of information
so that you can link the Address
Book application into your app.
So when you roll over one of the properties, a
plug-in that you write can invoke your application
to perform whatever application may be appropriate.
Additionally, we provide a user interface module which
reassembles the UI inside of the Address Book application.
And there is a pallet available in interface builder.
So you can just drag this out into
your application and use it.
And it's customizable, so that it can show only
that data which you're interested in for your app.
Of the pallets available in Tiger.
And unfortunately it didn't quite make it
into the Leopard DVD that you have this week.
But I think we will be addressing that shortly.
So when you actually want to go and use the Address
Book, the first class that you're probably going to need
to interface with is AB Address Book provides
a work space into the world of Address Book.
It internally manages interactions with the
Address Book persistent data store as well
as providing a conduit for search
and localization internally.
So in order to get an Address Book object, you can
use the shared Address Book method on AB Address Book.
Every invocation in your application
will return the same object.
It's a single ten or shared object.
There's also a new method called Address Book, which will
turn a unique object, which Colter will be discussing.
Once you have this object you can query the set of
all people in the database using the people method,
which will return array of people, or groups,
which will return an array of those groups
that have been defined either by your application
or by the users using the Address Book app.
You can also manipulate the records with AB Address Book
through of the simple methods, add record, remove record,
and when you're done making these changes
you can commit them to disc by calling save.
So what are you getting back when you call people in groups.
And what are these AB records?
Well, you're getting back an array
of AB records for people in groups.
And the AB records themselves are an abstract
superclass for all data types with an Address Book.
And presently this includes people,
which are also companies, and groups,
which are containers for other AB records.
There are a number of methods that
are available on all AB groups.
And you may notice that this reassembles a
map or a dictionary in that we have a number
of predefined property constants for all Address Book types.
So at the AB record level, there are some defined.
As well as some that are only valid for
the scope of AB person and AB group.
Using value for property, if you pass
in the associated prompt con constant
for a type, for example, it would be first name.
You will be returned an NF string
for a first name for AB person.
You can manipulate the record using set value for property.
And when you wish to remove it
using remove value properties.
Fairly straight forward.
One important bit about AB record is that
when you're integrating your application
with Address Book you'll probably want to maintain
some sort of correlation between your data types
or your records and Address Book records.
And the appropriate way to do this
is using the unique I.D. method.
This is available on all AB records,
and it will return an N F string
which uniquely identifies this record in the database.
All other pieces of data in the record are mutable.
Such as the name may change, or
any other piece of information.
So if you want to keep a consistent reference
to this you should use the unique I.D.
method and store that in your application.
Here's some examples of some of the properties available
on AB record for different types of record types.
So on the top we see that we have the KAB
last name property -- and this returns --
not surprisingly, the last name or surname of
the individual represented by the AB record.
The KAB birthday property, however, will return an NS date.
There's some properties which are only valid for groups.
Such as the group name property, which
returns the string of the group name.
And then there are a few that are available on all records.
And these include the creation date property.
Which is a date as well as modification date property.
And NS date as well.
Now there's one item on here as a data type that you may
not have seen before which is the AB multivalue class.
So what does this do?
AB multivalue is used for those situations
where you may have data that has multiple roles.
For example, telephone numbers.
You have a home number, a work number,
and also possibly a mobile number.
And rather than having a single attribute
for this, AB multivalue allows you
to keep track of these on a pro role basis.
The multivalue has sub elements, and to find the
number of elements in it, you can use the count method.
Up until Leopard you had to access these by index.
And the traditional ways of doing this are
evaluated index, label index, and identifier index.
Up to the count.
So there are three properties associated
with each element in an AB multivalue.
So there's the value itself.
And there's the label.
Which is an identifier for the role.
But the third one is the identifier itself.
Which is a string similar to the unique I.D., which
uniquely identifies an element inside of the AB multivalue.
So again, if you want to maintain a
reference to a particular data inside
of AB multivalue you should do so using the identifier.
Because the label may change as well.
Perhaps the land line's been converted to
a mobile number, or the number's changed.
But if you want to keep a reference to
just that element, use the identifier.
Excuse me.
And new in Leopard we have two
new method which are convenient
with Objective-C 2.0's class denumeration feature.
And these are value for identifier and label for identifier.
Which allow you to bypass the indices entirely.
So you can enumerate over the identifiers in a
four-loop and access just the values and labels.
There's another variant of AB multivalue.
AB multivalue itself is immutable.
However, there's also a mutable
variant for mutable multivalues
that you can change and then store back into the database.
The second type of record that I mentioned is AB group.
And AB group serves as a container
for other AB record types.
Now being an AB record type itself, this means
that AB group it contain other AB groups.
And you can do this on the Address Book application
very easily by dragging AB group into another.
And this is handy for, like, scenarios like Brendan,
who manages as he said both mail and Address Book.
He might have one group for all the Address Book
engineers, one group for all the mail engineers.
But when he wants to send mail to his entire organization,
he could have a group that contains both of those groups.
And here's where hierarchy becomes
very useful for your users.
You can query the membership of a group by calling members,
which will return an array of AB
people, or AB person objects.
And add member and remove member
may be used to manipulated the list.
For examining the hierarchy, you can use parent groups.
To find those groups that are contained by this group and
other groups to find those groups that this group contains.
There's one additional feature in AB
group which is a kind of hidden feature.
But it's been around.
And that is distribution lists.
So for multivalues you may have several e-mail addresses.
You might have a work e-mail address, a
home e-mail address for the e-mail property.
But when you send e-mail to a group, how do you
know which e-mail address it's going to pick.
Or more importantly, how do you specify which one?
If you're sending a work-related e-mail you probably
want it to go to their e-mail address at work.
And you can use a primary identifier on the group
using set distribution identifier for property person.
You just pass the identifier for the
element in the AB multivalue that you want
to associate as the primary one for this group.
Pass in the property string for the time, and
then the person that you want it to be applied to.
And one final bit.
Into the bit passed into the API level, but still
quite important is that of the notifications.
Address Book using notifications to alert
your application about database state changes.
So if you're running, and another application is
running, which is almost guaranteed to be the case,
many of these apps may be making
changes underneath of your app.
So if they're running your application and
they're also running the Address Book application,
they could be making changes to contacts, or
possibly even deleting the one you're working with.
These notifications allow you to
respond appropriately to these actions.
And it's especially important that you
not continue to reference deleted records.
If you have any sort of interactive use of the API.
It's not quite as bad as, say,
referencing deal indicated memory.
It won't cause a crash in your application, but
it will raise an exception because underneath
of the framework it causes a fault that CoreData
could not fulfill because the record has been deleted.
So if you just listen to these
notifications you will be fine.
But how do you know that a record's been deleted?
Well, there are two kinds of notifications.
And the most important one is the K A B
database changed externally notification.
And this informs you of changes made
by other applications to the database.
We also have a K B database change notification.
And the distinction between the externally changed
notification and the change notification is
that the AB database change notification is only
sent to you if you register for it in response
to changes that you make to the database.
This is mostly a convenience.
So that if you have multiple windows or multiple views,
your view controller are register
for interest in this notification.
And when one of your windows makes a change to
your model then all of your views can be updated.
If you called the user info method on the
notification objects sent to your notification handler.
You will be sent or you will be returned
a dictionary object with three keys.
And these allow you to know precisely
what happened under the hood.
Why some other application or your own, to the database.
So if you want to find out which records have been deleted,
you can use the deleted records key on that dictionary
to retrieve that list as well as a list
for inserted records or updated records.
All of these notifications are sent
by the default notification center,
and not the distribution notification center.
It might seem natural that because the external change
notifications are coming from other applications
that they would be sent on the
distributed notification center.
But they are all sent by the default notification center.
So use the NS notification center and not
the distributive notification center this is.
There may be some distributive
notifications underneath the hood.
But the framework will interpret those and rebroadcast
them to you as local notifications as appropriate.
And that about covers the API overview.
So I would like to turn this over to Bret
who's going to be going over action plug-ins
for the Address Book application, as
well as how to use the people picker.
Bret?
( Applause )
>> Thanks Joe.
Good morning.
Let me get some water first.
I'm sorry.
Good morning.
I am Brett Neeley and I work on
Address Book as the quality assurance and build engineer.
Let's get started to these two topics.
First I will be talking about the people picker,
which is a user interface we provide in your framework
to let users take advantage of contact
information they already have in their databases.
Secondly, I'll talk about the action plug-in API that we
provide allowing you to add features to the application
and hook into services or applications that you provide.
So why would you want to use something
like of the People Picker in your software?
Well, let's take a look back at the
early days of commerce on the Web.
Have you seen something like this before?
This is a site where maybe you're making a
purchase here, and the site is asking you
to enter your billing and shipping address.
Well, because of the way this form is constructed
you have to enter that information twice.
Isn't that a hassle?
So move beyond this interface, and to
improve it is to add a check box here
that says use the same address for billing and shipping.
So now you can only enter the address once.
And that's nice.
But if the address is already on your system, why not just
take advantage of that data and not retype anything at all.
And if that's what you want to do
then you should use is People Picker.
What does the People Picker look like?
Well, let's start by taking a look
at the Address Book application.
This layout has three columns in it.
Groups are on the left.
Names in the middle.
And then values on the right.
And at the top right of this window
you'll see our search field.
So now I'll show you the People Picker.
And this layout pretty much matches
the Address Book application.
Groups on the left.
Names in the middle.
Values on the right.
And the top right of this window also has a search field.
Let's take a closer look now at how the
mail application uses the People Picker.
This is mail's People Picker, and
I'll point out two things here.
First, on the right-most column the mail application
configures the People Picker to display e-mail addresses.
For e-mail application, the e-mail property in AB
person is the most important type of value to display.
Now second, on the top left of this
window we see these three buttons.
Well, how did mail put these buttons
into our user interface?
Well, this is actually public API.
This is called the accessory view inside of the AB People
Picker view that we provide for Objective-C developers.
So using these three buttons, mail is able to provide
a complete work flow for composing a new mail message
to an existing e-mail address into
the Address Book database.
So when the user selects an e-mail address,
presses either 2 C C, or C C B here,
then that e-mail address is added to a mail compose window.
Now let's look at iChat's People Picker.
This is a little bit different.
And I'll point out a couple things here as well.
First you'll notice that the right-most column is
displaying the Aim property from the AB person class.
This gives the user the opportunity to add buddies to their
Aim buddy list by using a value from their Address Book.
If it exists there already.
But you also notice that next to the Aim column
in the column header is the up down arrows.
And this indicates that the People Picker
is providing you with a pop up menu.
So the People Picker can provide more than
one prompt, but not more than one at a time.
So the iChat People Picker shows both
the Aim and the e-mail properties.
Now why does iChat need to use the
e-mail property in addition to Aim?
Well, this is because dot Mac e-mail accounts
can also be used as Aim buddy handles.
So if you have an Aim account, or a Mac dot com
e-mail address in one of your existing contacts,
you can select it from this UI
and add it to your Aim buddy list.
Now iChat also puts these three
text fields above the People Picker.
And what do these do?
Well, it seems to be just showing
the same information that's displayed
with the current selection in the People Picker.
But these are also editable text fields.
So say that you select a contact in Address Book that
does not vet have an Aim account associated with it.
You can select that contact, go to the account name text
field above the window, above the People Picker view,
and then type in the account name and press the add button.
And that will do two things.
That will save the Aim account to the Address
Book card and the Address Book application
and then add the Aim account to your buddy list as well.
So iChat is providing a complete work flow within
this window to add existing or new Aim accounts
to your buddy list and up date your
Address Book application if necessary.
And you don't have to jump back and forth between
Address Book and iChat to accomplish this.
Now how is iChat keeping these text fields in
sync with the selections inside the People Picker.
Well, this is done with the selection
change notifications that we provide
in the People Picker which I will talk about shortly.
In order to retrieve values from the People Picker,
you can add buttons to accessory view
as I pointed out with the mail example.
Or you might decide to configure double actions
to associate with name or group selections.
So a double action is a double-click on the user interface.
So if a group or a name is double-clicked then
the method that you provide will be invoked.
And it's this easy using one of these two
methods to retrieve the selected values
or the selected records from the People Picker.
The notifications I mentioned during the iChat demo,
the screen shots, the notifications are shown here.
AB People Picker group did -- group
selection did change notification,
or name selection did change, or value selection did change.
You can register for any or all of these notifications
to update your user interface or take some action.
And this code example at the bottom
will show you how to do that.
In this example we register tomorrow the AB People
Picker value selection did change notification.
And when that notification is received, then the picker
up dated method that's highlighted here will be invoked.
Let's summarize what we've just been
discussing about the People Picker.
This is a familiar user interface that's based directly
on the user interface of the Address Book application.
It's a great way to provide an interface to your users
to use information already entered in their Address Book.
And to avoid the hassles of retyping
something that they know they just typed
in a few minutes ago, or some time in the past.
Search is provided for free in this user interface.
All of the People Pickers have
the search field at the top right
so users can quickly filter the name
list by typing in a search term there.
The picker is provided for both
C and Objective-C developers,
and the difference between these two People
Pickers is that the C People Picker is a window,
whereas the Objective-C People Picker is a view.
And the Objective-C People Picker
also provides the accessory view,
allowing you to add some user interface elements.
All right.
Let's move on, and now we'll talk about the Address
Book plug-in APIs that we provide in the application.
So the action plug-in API allows you to add features to
Address Book that hook into your application or service.
How does this look in the application?
Let's take a look at this Apple card here.
So we see a phone under, an URL, and a street address.
And on the left of these values
we see what's called the label
Now clicking on the label will bring up a menu of options.
And let's click on the menu to the left of the street
address, for example, and we'll see this pop up menu.
This is what we call the option menu.
These options here are actions that
can be performed on the selected value.
So the first option here is Map Of.
And this will map the street address in your Web browser.
And new for Leopard we are mapping
these street addresses with Google Maps.
So what's it like to create one of these plug-ins?
Well, it's not too hard at all.
Let's take a look at X code.
And I will be switching to the demo machine please.
Okay. So I launched X code.
And I'll go to the file menu to
open a new project assistant.
So scrolling down to the bottom we find
this group called standard Apple plug-ins.
Here we provided plug-in templates
for C and Objective-C developers.
And I'll do my demo in Objective-C.
And we'll give this -- we'll give the project a name.
And then hit finish.
Here's your plug-ins project.
And at this point we'll just go ahead and build it.
Because this is already a fully working plug-in.
Now plug-ins can be installed into
one of two locations on the system.
They are be installed to the top level library directory,
which means that the plug-in is visible to all users.
Or the plug-in can be installed into the user's
directory, so it's only visible to that user.
For this example I am going to install
the plug-ins for only this logged in user.
So it's going to be library directory.
And here's the Address Book plug-ins
directory that we provide.
And so this is empty right now.
There is no custom plug-ins installed -- let's go find the
build directory for the plug-in project that I just created.
Okay. Here's session 209 plug-in.
Build. Release.
And here is the bundle that we just built.
So now I'll just drag this into
the Address Book plug-in directory.
Sorry. That was so loud.
And now I launch Address Book.
So this plug-in by default works
with the K A B property on AB person.
So that means when we bring up the phone
action mean you we will see a new menu item,
and it's called Speak 1-800 My Apple.
And what we've done here is we've taken -- we've retrieved
the value of the phone number that the user selected
from the card and we used that to fill in the menu title,
and I'll show you how that's done in just a moment.
So let's go ahead run the plug-in now.
( Applause )
>> 1 -800 My Apple.
>> Goodness, that's loud.
I will do that one more time, a little bit quieter.
>> 1-800 My Apple.
>> Okay. That was kind of a phone number.
Okay. So now we've seen how the plug-in can be
installed, built, and then shown up in Address Book.
Now let's take a look at the code behind the plug-in.
Our plug-in API is based around four tasks.
So whether we're doing C, Objective-C, or Apple Script,
you'll have to implement four methods, functions,
or handlers to perform the plug-in actions.
First we have this action property method.
This method tells Address Book which property
on AB person the plug-in will operate upon.
So this is returning KAB phone property, which is one
of the can constants that we provide in the framework.
Title for person identifier.
Now this method retrieves -- receives two parameters
from the Address Book application informing
which AB person is current displayed in the
application, and which unique identifies the value
in the multivalue that the user has selected.
And this method is responsible for setting the
menu title, which is done here on the last line.
So see here that the code is based around
retrieving the value from the contact
and then setting the menu title with Speak Value.
Perform action for person identifier receives
those same parameters I just mentioned
from the Address Book application.
And this is responsible for actually
doing the work of the plug-in.
And in this case, the example that we provide
is we create an NS speech synthesizer object,
receive the value from the record, and then
have the speech synthesizer speak the value.
And finally, should enable action for person identifier
again receive those same parameters, and give you the chance
to initially enable or disable your plug-in.
Based on whether or not the value meets the criteria.
One example of how you might use this is if you're
writing a plug-in that works on the phone property
and you can only operate on 1-800
numbers, or if you're operating on the KAB
or URL's property, and you can only work on HTTPS URLs.
If you wanted to disable your plug-in, you would
return no unconditionally in this method here.
And then your menu item would still appear in
the user interface, but it would be disabled.
So that's all the code that's behind
this plug-in that I have shown to you.
I now have another example to show.
To give you an idea of how else this API can be used.
Let's go back to the Address Book
plug-in's directory for this user.
And I have a street bundle that we've created.
This is from Joe.
Then I'll launch Address Book again.
And okay, here's the card.
So I heard there's a cool store somewhere
near 1 Stocking Street here in the city.
Now I have any new plug-in title here
called take a look around 1 Stocking Street.
Let's run that and see what it does.
Okay. This will bring up Google maps.
And now we're using the street view from Google maps.
So let's rotate here and see what's around here.
I think I see something that I like.
That looks like an Apple store.
Okay. That's cool.
Let's see what's down here.
Just zoom in.
Ah, I see some shuffles there.
Look at all those pretty colors.
And note that if you're going to park here just pay
that meter, because those tickets are expensive.
So that's another example of what you can
do with the information that you can receive
from Address Book through the action plug-in API.
Okay. Now switch back to the slides please.
Seed developers can use this call back
based API which structured very similarly
to our Objective-C API for the action plug-in interface.
And you'll notice the same values, the same value parameters
are passed in to you from the Address Book application.
Person identifier, except these are
AB person refs in C F string refs.
This is also a fully working template installed for you
in X code when you use the standard Apple plug-ins group.
We allow you to write plug-ins using Apple Script.
Here are the four handlers that
you would implement to do that.
And whether you're writing a plug-in using Objective-C,
C, or Apple Script all the plug-ins are installed
to the same locations that I mentioned earlier.
Now I'd like to talk about some
best practices for using this API.
It's important that your plug-in is able to load quickly,
and quickly tell Address Book what the
menu title should be for the plug-in.
Plug-ins are only loaded at the time the user first
brings up one of the action menus in the user interface.
Also keep in mind that if you're
developing and shipping a plug-in,
your plug-in might be only one of
several that the user has installed.
Appropriate actions that you can perform with
this plug-in interface is you can openly an URL
to direct the user to an on line service of some form.
Or you could pass the value to your own application.
Either through a local URL or if the app is already
running, you could post notification so send the value.
Now summarize the action plug-in APIs for you.
This is a simple but powerful API that we provide
to you to let you hook your features or services
into the Address Book user interface directly.
You would use Objective-C, C, or Apple Script to do this.
And developers of C and Objective-C can use the templates
that we provide in X code to get started very quickly.
Once you make the template project I did of X
code, you already have a fully working plug-in.
So you can build it, run it, and
then modify it to your needs.
And you can use this API to pass values to your application
or service directory from the Address Book user interface.
Not that you know all this I hope that you go forth
and write some great new plug-ins
for our Address Book application.
Now I'll introduce Colter Reed, who will come to talk to you
about the best practices with the Address Book API.
Thank you.
( Applause )
>> Thanks, Bret.
Good morning.
I'm Colter.
One of the Address Book engineers.
And the next 15, 20 minutes I'm going to
cover some best practices to keep in mind
when you're developing for the Address Book framework.
We made some changes behind the scenes for
Leopard and we want to make sure that you're aware
of a couple potential hot spots,
to keep an eye out in your code.
Or if you're just developing your application,
hopefully we'll get you started on the right foot.
We want to make sure that the changes that we've
made to Leopard will work to your advantage.
We'll be covering three things.
All of them have to do with performance.
The first two are going to be ways that your application
can use less memory and get things done faster.
And the third one is going to be going
into how you might be doing as little work
as possible to get the results that you want.
Let's go back to Tiger for a second.
In Tiger, we made some assumptions about how the clients
were using our framework, or going to be using them.
And one of the assumptions that we made was that if you were
interested in any of the data that was in the Address Book,
you were going to be interested in all
the data that was in the Address Book.
And so as soon as your application watched, we made sure
that all of the information that the Address Book was loaded
into memory, it was ready, it was waiting.
As soon as you wanted it, it was there.
But no. There are a lot of really great applications
out there for OS X. They're all using Address Book
to store the contact information centrally and get
these great benefits that Brendan talked about.
And each one of these applications is
interested in a different type of information.
If you're writing an e-mail client, you're going to be
interested in the e-mail addresses that a person has.
If you're writing a Web browser, you're going
to be interested in the URLs that they have.
Maybe one or two addresses to help
them fill out forms quickly.
But the rest of the information, your
application probably isn't concerned with.
So in Leopard we're going to wait to
load information until you ask for it.
And there is one thing that is going to be critical
to making this work to everyone's advantage.
And that's searching.
Let me show you how.
Say you're writing an app -- say
you're writing an e-mail application.
And you want to build a quiet list out of all the e-mail
addresses that a person has in their Address Book.
You might have a loop something like this.
We're going to use the new four in syntax as part of
Objective-C 2.0, and we're going to ask the Address Book
for a list of all the people that it has.
We're going to iterate over the array that comes back.
And we're going to ask each person
for the e-mails that they have.
And we're going to add those e-mails to our writing list.
Now let's look at this from a memory access
standpoint and see what's going on behind the scenes.
At the beginning of the loop you asked the Address
Book framework for a list of all the people.
So we'll go to the disc, we'll get you a
list of all the people in the Address Book.
You go into the loop.
You get to the first person, you ask us
for the e-mail address for person one.
We'll go to the disc.
We'll get you the e-mail address for person one.
You get to person two.
You ask us for the e-mail address for person two.
We'll go back to the disc, we'll get
you the e-mail address for person two.
We'll go back to the disc and we'll get
you the e-mail addresses for person three.
We're not going to second-guess your application and try
to predict what kind of information you're interested in.
We're going to wait until you ask for information
before we go to the disc and get it for you.
And as a result this loop is going to end up spending a lot
of time waiting on disc access; waiting for us to come back.
How does search make this better?
Let's go back to the beginning of the loop.
If you just ask us for a list of all the people
we don't know what you're interested in next.
But if you ask us for the people who have
an e-mail address, that gives us a clue.
I mean, wow, you're probably interested in the e-mail data.
So the same trip that we go to the disc and we get
you the list of people who have e-mail addresses,
and just people who have e-mail addresses, we
can also get that e-mail data at the same time.
And then the loop can go through and
it doesn't have to touch the disc again
because all that data is already in memory.
And only the data is -- that you're
interested in, that e-mail information.
Only that is in memory.
You don't have to worry about the rest of it.
How much faster is this?
I mean, you might be thinking, okay,
there's a little bit of overhead involved
in creating the search and executing the search.
Certainly, for small data sets it's faster to just grab
the list of everybody and just blindly walk through it.
And you're right.
A little proof of concept app, just to
play around, take some measurements.
And how many of you have at least
10 people in your Address Book?
Yeah. That's how slow it is to go back to the
disc all the time on every pass through the loop.
If you have just ten people in your
Address Book, it's faster to search.
Now what if you have more than 10 people.
What if you have hundreds of contacts?
What if you have thousands of contacts?
Well, turns out that, yeah, searching is definitely faster.
It's a lot faster.
Now how much additional code do you have
to write in order to get this performance?
Well, not much.
Just two lines.
Let take a look at them.
The search element is a description
of what we're interested in.
Here we're interested in all the
people who have an e-mail address.
We're not worried about the label.
We don't care if it's a home address
or if it's a work address.
We're not worried about that.
We want them all.
We don't need to use the key.
The key is used if you're searching street addresses.
Let's us know if you're searching the
street value or the city, or the zip.
Don't need to use that here.
Just want all the people who have an e-mail address.
And then instead of asking the Address Book,
you know, for everybody, we ask the Address Book
for the people who have an e-mail address.
Again, we get back an array.
And so our original loop doesn't have to change at all.
But because you searched, the Address Book framework
has been able to preload the data that you're interested
in into memory and so you get faster
performance using less memory.
Searching is something that works
in Leopard, also works in Tiger.
So if your application targets both versions of
OS, don't worry about special-casing anything.
You can -- the same code will run on both.
Let's talk about something that is new in Leopard.
Brendan mentioned that new in Leopard
we're now using CoreData on the back end.
Simple database engine.
One of the fun things about sequel database engines
is we've made these little sand boxes to play in.
And you can get the data, and you can play around
with it and make all the changes that you want to it.
And when you're ready, you have control over
when that information is saved and made available
to anybody else that's using the databases.
So new in Leopard, and in addition
to the shared Address Book object,
we're also introducing local Address Book objects.
They have the same data available to them.
But whereas the shared Address Book is available to the
entire operating system, any application that's running,
a local Address Book object is only available to your
process within whatever method you're using it in.
When you make changes to a record
that's in the shared Address Book,
those changes are immediately visible
and available to other applications.
With a local Address Book object, you have control
over when those changes are made available.
This additional control does come
at a little bit of a price.
Because there is just one shared Address Book
object, once it's initialized, it's initialized.
Anybody can get it, anybody can get it for free.
Any time you want to create a local Address
Book object, it does take a little bit --
it does take a little bit of time for
us to set it up; get ready for you.
Not much, but it can ad up.
So there's one place that I want you to be
aware that we're doing this behind the scenes.
And that's when you create a record.
In order to get future pairing between
Leopard and Tiger when you create an --
when you create a record using the emit method
we will create a local Address Book object
to create the record in; set it up.
So new in Leopard we're also going to
introduce an emit with Address Book method.
And this will let you specify which
Address Book object you want us to use.
Let me show you how this can work -- how this can help
you fine tune the performance of your application.
Let's say you want to write an H card parser.
You've got code that loads the X M data
into memory and parses it on to some sort
of a temporary data structure,
maybe an array of dictionaries.
If you do the Cocoa development, a dictionary is
just a hash table, a map associated with an array.
And once you're satisfied that you
got good information out of it,
you want to take any temporary data
structure and store it into the Address Book.
Let's start with a loop something like this.
Nothing fancy.
We're just going to go through our temporary data structure.
We're going to create a local person
-- we're going to create a person.
We're going to go through and we're
going to populate the person with values
that we've got on temporary data structure.
And we're going to add that person to our Address Book.
Now let's go back to the emit method where you created this.
Like I said behind the scenes, we're going to do this.
This is the equivalent code.
Does the same thing.
Create a local Address Book object and we use that local
Address Book object while you're initializing the record.
This let's you make all the changes that you want.
And then you control when the Address Book -- when
the record is added to the shared Address Book.
Now each time through of the loop here we're going to set
up and create a local Address Book object for you just
to throw it away and create a new one
at the beginning of the next loop.
Well, one optimization you can make to this loop is
to just manually create a local Address
Book object before you go into the loop.
And then we can reuse that same local
Address Book each time we go through the loop
to set the records up and initialize them.
There's another optimization you can make in this.
When you add a person to the Address Book, there's
an implicit save that goes on behind the scenes.
Well, because we have a local Address Book
that we're working with, let's just --
instead of saving, saving a change to the shared
object every time we go through this loop,
let's just save that local Address Book,
once we're done going through the loop.
When you save, the changes that you've
made are going to be made available
to other applications of that shared Address Book.
When you save changes there are notifications
that are posted to other applications
to let them know that there are changes available.
By just saving it once at the end you save your application
work, you save other applications on the system work.
Everybody wins.
Everybody's code runs faster, your code uses less memory.
Let's go beyond the framework for a second.
When we created the Address Book
framework we didn't think of everything.
We didn't try to think of everything.
What we provided is a quick and easy way to
store and access the types of information that --
that applications are most interested
in when they're dealing with people.
But -- let's say your application
needs to start with more information.
You want to do something that sets
your app apart from the competition.
Well, how do you store more information?
There are a couple different options available to
you, and which option you use is going to be depend
on the specify needs of your application.
One thing that you can do -- let's say you want to store
information about a person's favorite food or what kind
of music they like; what their favorite color is.
The quickest thing to do is use custom properties.
You can create a custom description of what type of --
a new type of information that's going to be associated
with -- with a person in the Address Book.
It works for groups as well.
This does have its limitations.
For example, because the sync schema doesn't
know about these custom properties, you know,
custom properties wouldn't be able to sync around.
But for just, you know, access on the one computer,
this is going to be fastest and easiest way to do it.
But let's say that you do want to have data
propagate around, you do want to get it in sync.
You do want to get it out on other computers; other devices.
Or let's say you want to store more complex information.
You want to store more than just information about a person.
You want to store, you know, an order
history with a complete call log
of interactions you have had with customers.
Well, your application may need
to use a generic staple database.
CoreData is a great framework to use.
It's pretty easy to get up and running with it.
And a custom database solution can coexist side by
side with the Address Book framework just wonderfully.
Every person and every value, like Joe
mentioned, had a unique I.D. on it.
And so as your database needs to store references
back to particular people and items of data
in the Address Book database, you
can use those as a reference.
They persist.
They stay around.
Or you want to go really complex.
Or maybe you've already got an existing database
solution that you use with your application.
You've had it for years, you've
invested a lot of engineering time
to fine tuning, you've got the performance you want.
It's tried, it's trusted.
You're a little bit hesitant about, you
know, getting in and tearing things apart.
Well, going in with sync services is another option.
There's a public sync schema for contacts that
will let you get the information from your database
into the Apple Address Book ecosystem so
that users can pick up on these events,
OS X technologies that Brendan was talking about.
Also let's your application pick up information that
users have already entered in another application.
That's another option that's available to you.
But for most of you, the fastest, easiest way to get your
application up and running is sharing address information
with other applications on the system is going
to be through using the Address Book framework.
You get advantage to these new OS X
technologies as they become variable.
When Tiger came along, anybody who was already using
the Address Book framework they got Spotlight for free.
Anybody who is using the Address Book framework
now is going to get Time Machine for free.
Syncing to other devices.
As other devices come along, syncing dot Mac services.
Syncing to dot Mac.
All for free.
People Picker -- gives you familiar user
interface so that your customers can get
up to speed faster with your application.
They already know it.
They can get going with it.
And searching.
Searching the Address Book whenever possible gives us
clues to the kinds of data that you're interested in,
so that we can have the data ready for you when you
need it, still using as little memory as possible.
So where do we go from here?
Well, 5 o'clock any afternoon we're going to be down
in Mac OS X Lab A. And we would love for you to come
by and spend some one on one time with us.
You know, talk with us, any questions,
concerns that you have, stop on by.
There's also our developer Web site.
Developer dot Apple dot com.
It's got some great code examples and mailing list
archives for people who have already gone through
and solved maybe the same problems that you're facing now.
It's always available, 24-7.
There's also Matt Drance, our
sharing technologies evangelist here at Apple.
He doesn't keep quite the same hours that
the Web site does, but he is available now.